# Spice v0.16-alpha (July 22, 2024)

The v0.16-alpha release is the first candidate release for the beta milestone on a path to finalizing the v1.0 developer and user experience. Upgraders should be aware of several breaking changes designed to improve the Secrets configuration experience and to make authoring `spicepod.yml` files more consistent. See the [Breaking Changes](#Breaking Changes) section below for details. Additionally, the Spice Java SDK was released, providing Java developers a simple but powerful native experience to query Spice.

## Highlights in v0.16-alpha

- **Secret Stores**: More than one [Secret Store](https://docs.spiceai.org/components/secret-stores) can now be specified. For example, to configure Spice with both [Environment Variable](https://docs.spiceai.org/components/secret-stores/env) and [AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.spiceai.org/components/secret-stores/aws-secrets-manager) Secret Stores, use the following `secrets` configuration in `spicepod.yaml`:

```yaml
secrets:
  - from: env
    name: env
  - from: aws_secrets_manager:my_secret_name
    name: aws_secret
```

Secrets managed by configured Secret Stores can be referenced in component `params` using the syntax `${<store_name>:<key>}`. E.g.

```yaml
datasets:
  - from: postgres:my_table
    name: my_table
    params:
      pg_host: localhost
      pg_port: 5432
      pg_pass: ${{ env:MY_PG_PASS }}
```

- **Java Client SDK**: The [Spice Java SDK](https://github.com/spiceai/spice-java) has been released for JDK 17 or greater.

- **Federated SQL Query**: Significant stability and reliability improvements have been made to federated SQL query support in most data connectors.

## Breaking Changes

- **Secret Stores**: Secret Stores support has been overhauled including required changes to `spicepod.yml` schema. File based secrets stored in the `~/.spice/auth` file are no longer supported. See [Secret Stores Documentation](https://docs.spiceai.org/components/secret-stores) for full reference.

To upgrade Secret Stores, rename any parameters ending in `_key` to remove the `_key` suffix and specify a secret inline via the secret replacement syntax (`${<secret_store>:<key>}`):

```yaml
datasets:
  - from: postgres:my_table
    name: my_table
    params:
      pg_host: localhost
      pg_port: 5432
      pg_pass_key: my_pg_pass
```

to:

```yaml
datasets:
  - from: postgres:my_table
    name: my_table
    params:
      pg_host: localhost
      pg_port: 5432
      pg_pass: ${secrets:my_pg_pass}
```

And ensure the `MY_PG_PASS` environment variable is set.

- **Datasets**: The default value of [`time_format`](https://docs.spiceai.org/reference/spicepod/datasets#time_format) has changed from `unix_seconds` to `timestamp`.

To upgrade:

```yaml
datasets:
  - from:
    name: my_dataset
    # Explicitly define format when not specified.
    time_format: unix_seconds
```

- **HTTP Port**: The default HTTP port has changed from port `3000` to port `8090` to avoid conflicting with frontend apps which typically use the 3000 range. If an SDK is used, upgrade it at the same time as the runtime.

To upgrade and continue using port 3000, run spice with the port command:

```shell
# Via CLI
spice run --port 3000

# Using Dockerfile or spiced directly
spiced --port 3000
```

- **HTTP Metrics Port**: The default HTTP Metrics port has changed from port `9000` to `9090` to avoid conflicting with other metrics protocols which typically use port 9000.

To upgrade and continue using port 9000, run spice with the port command:

```shell
# Via CLI
spice run --metrics-port 9000

# Using Dockerfile or spiced directly
spiced --metrics-port 9000
```

- **GraphQL Data Connector**: `json_path` has been replaced with `json_pointer` to access nested data from the result of the GraphQL query. See the [GraphQL Data Connector](https://docs.spiceai.org/components/data-connectors/graphql) documentation for full details and [RFC-6901 - JSON Pointer](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6901).

To upgrade, change:

```yaml
json_path: my.json.path
```

To:

```yaml
json_pointer: my/json/pointer
```

- **Data Connectors UX**: All UX for Data Connectors have been updated for consistency in experience. Refer to the [documentation](https://docs.spiceai.org/components/data-connectors) for parameter naming changes in this release.

## Contributors

## What's Changed

### Dependencies

### Commits

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/spiceai/spiceai/compare/v0.15.2-alpha...v0.16.0-beta
